Add DBOS TS integration guide (#307)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/typescript/tutorials/integrating-dbos.md

---
sidebar_position: 100
title: Adding DBOS To Your App
pagination_next: null
---

This guide shows you how to add the open source [DBOS Transact](https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts) library to your existing application to **durably execute** it and make it resilient to any failure.
It also shows you how to serverlessly deploy your application to DBOS Cloud and scale it to millions of users.

### Using DBOS Transact

#### 1. Install DBOS

`npm install` DBOS into your application. Note that DBOS requires Node.js 20 or later.

```shell
npm install @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk
```

> Then, create a basic `dbos-config.yaml` file in your app's root directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a `dbos-config.yaml` file in your app's root directory:
```

```yaml title="dbos-config.yaml"
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts/main/dbos-config.schema.json

language: node
telemetry:
  logs:
    logLevel: 'info'
```

Also, set the following settings in your `tsconfig.json` file, which enable TypeScript decorators:

```json title="tsconfig.json"
  "compilerOptions": {
    "experimentalDecorators": true,
    "emitDecoratorMetadata": true,
  }
```

#### 2. Initialize DBOS in Your App

In your app's main entrypoint, add the following lines of code.
This initializes DBOS when your app starts.

```javascript
import { DBOS } from "@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk";

await DBOS.launch();
```

#### 3. Start Your Application

Try starting your application:

```

> npm start # Or use your own start command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm run start # Or use your own start command
```

  static async exampleWorkflow() {
    await Example.myStep(1);
    await Example.myStep(2);
  }
}
```

To ensure that DBOS registers all decorated functions, **declare all DBOS-decorated functions before running `await DBOS.launch()`.**

You can add DBOS to your application incrementally&mdash;it won't interfere with code that's already there.
It's totally okay for your application to have one DBOS workflow alongside thousands of lines of non-DBOS code.

To learn more about programming with DBOS, check out [the programming guide](../programming-guide.md).

### Deploying to DBOS Cloud

Any application you build with DBOS can be serverlessly deployed to DBOS Cloud.
DBOS Cloud can seamlessly autoscale your application to millions of users and provides built-in dashboards for observability and monitoring.

#### 1. Install the DBOS Cloud CLI

Run this command to install the cloud CLI globally.

```shell
npm i -g @dbos-inc/dbos-cloud@latest
```

#### 2. Define a Start Command

Set the `start` command in the `runtimeConfig` section of your [`dbos-config.yaml`](../reference/configuration.md) to your application's launch command.

```yaml title="dbos-config.yaml"
runtimeConfig:
  start:

>     - npm start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - npm run start
```

---
sidebar_position: 100
title: Adding DBOS To Your App
pagination_next: null
---

This guide shows you how to add the open source [DBOS Transact](https://github.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts) library to your existing application to **durably execute** it and make it resilient to any failure.
It also shows you how to serverlessly deploy your application to DBOS Cloud and scale it to millions of users.

### Using DBOS Transact

#### 1. Install DBOS

`npm install` DBOS into your application. Note that DBOS requires Node.js 20 or later.

```shell
npm install @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk
```

Then, create a basic `dbos-config.yaml` file in your app's root directory:

```yaml title="dbos-config.yaml"
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dbos-inc/dbos-transact-ts/main/dbos-config.schema.json

language: node
telemetry:
  logs:
    logLevel: 'info'
```

> You can change `runtimeConfig.start` to your own start script of your application.

Reviewer: Delete line

> Finally, to use DBOS decorators, enable the following compiler options in your `tsconfig.json` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, enable the following compiler options in your `tsconfig.json` file, which are required to use TypeScript decorators:
```
